# 6 January 2023

15:00 CET ml et dahoum

* 1st day of the project `done`
* Article https://dahoum.wales/the-pacman-as-a-nursery-32ba07b282b1 `ml`
* Mantra
  * Do everything yourself, do not search for ready code in the internet.
  * The goal is the skill, not the result. The result should demonstrate the skill.
  * Always begin by analysing the original game (eg. Google PacMan and play the Google doodle) and asking yourself "How can I do this w/ HTML, CSS and JavaScript."
  * Make small steps. Sometimes you will be overwhelmed by the possibilities. Do not get lost. Make small steps.
* Homework
  * Find the sprite sheet `ml`
  * Show the sprite sheet in HTML `ml`
  * Show only the full labyrinth w/ CSS `ml`
  * Place one PacMan on top of it w/ CSS `ml`
  * Try to move the PacMan around `ml`
* Done today:
  * analysed game by playing it, main game rules (there are more)
    * objective: eat all of the dots placed in the maze while avoiding four colored ghosts
    * power pellets - ghosts turn blue when eaten & pacman can get extra points by eating the ghosts, first ghost eaten is worth 200 points, each other is twice the price of the latter's one
    * found the sprite sheet
    * showed only the full labyrinth w/ CSS (there's a 'can't show image' icon on it, need to remove it)
    * searched for the most clever way to show all images from the sprite sheet - found libraries but not gonna use them (found some good css template examples of stylesheets made for the sprite sheet => gonna use them)
    * researched the topic of game development w/ css, html and js in general, watched a lot of videos and read blogposts (on sprite sheets, simple animations, etc)